docs: x/distribution spec (#8928)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: x/distribution/spec/05_hooks.md

# Hooks

## Create or modify delegation distribution

 - triggered-by: `staking.MsgDelegate`, `staking.MsgBeginRedelegate`, `staking.MsgUndelegate`

### Before

> The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the delegator's withdraw address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the delegators' withdraw address.
```

Author: In this case, it's singular.

Reviewer: In my suggestion it's also singular. It's possessive form.

Author: I'm not a native speaker, but I thought `delegator's` was possessive singular, `delegators'` was possessive plural. I might be wrong.
But if there's any chance of misunderstanding we can do better. How about this:
```
The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the withdraw address of the delegator.
```

Reviewer 2: I like it! @hjorthjort writing around questionable wording and punctuation is known in the technical writing world as the "mongoose principle" one day we can chat about this fun conundrum!

Reviewer: I like the suggestion as well. Let's use it.

> The rewards include the current period, but excludes the starting period.
> Then increment the validator period, which is used for calculating rewards.
> The latter is necessary because, due to the nature of the triggers, the validator's power and share distribution can have changed.
> The reference count for the delegator's starting period is decremented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rewards include the current period and exclude the starting period.
The validator period is incremented and is used for calculating rewards.
The validator period is incremented because the validator's power and share distribution might have changed.
The reference count for the delegator's starting period is decremented.
```

### After

The starting height of the delegation is set to the previous period.

> Because of the `Before`-hook, this is the last period for which the delegator was rewarded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of the `Before`-hook, this height is the last period for which the delegator was rewarded.
```

Reviewer 2: let's make sure that "this" clarifies the subject, I _think_ we mean height (but check!)

Author: should be `period`, good catch

## Validator created

- triggered-by: `staking.MsgCreateValidator`

> Initialized the validator variables: Historical rewards, current accumulated rewards, accumulated commission, and total outstanding rewards.
> All are set to a `0` by default.
> The period is set to `1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a validator is created, the following validator variables are Initialized: 
- Historical rewards
- Current accumulated rewards
- Accumulated commission
- Total outstanding rewards
Be default, all values are set to a `0`.
The period is set to `1`.
```

Reviewer 2: should we include "period" in the list?

Author: fixed, thank you

## Validator removed

- triggered-by: `staking.RemoveValidator`

> Any outstanding commission is sent to the validator's self-delegation's withdrawal address.
> Any remaining rewards still stored in the validator gets sent to the community fee pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any outstanding commission is sent to the validator's self-delegation's withdrawal address.
Any remaining rewards still stored in the validator gets sent to the community fee pool.
```
```suggestion
Outstanding commission is sent to the validator's self-delegation withdrawal address.
Remaining rewards that are stored in the validator get sent to the community fee pool.
```

Reviewer 2: hmmm I'm not clear what we mean by "stored in the validator" 
can we just say "Remaining rewards get sent... "

Author: thanks!

> Note: the validator only gets removed when it has no remaining delegations.
> All outstanding rewards have been withdrawn.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A validator is removed only after:
- The validator has no more delegations.
- All delegations have ended.
- All outstanding rewards are withdrawn.```

Author: Not exactly what I'm going for. It's more of an invariant, that the when the validator is removed, we know that these things have occured. To me the above reads as causation.
I have updated the text with another suggestion, let me know what you think

## Validator is slashed

- triggered-by: `staking.Slash`
  

> The current validator period reference count is incremented, since the slash event will need to refer to it.
> The validator period is incremented.
> The slash event is stored, to be referenced when calculating delegator rewards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current validator period reference count is incremented so the slash event reference to it is accurate.
The validator period is incremented.
The slash event is stored and is referenced when calculating delegator rewards.
```

Author: Thank you. I think some things can be made still clearer. Let me know what you think of my new changes.

# Hooks

> 

Reviewer 2: instead of stacking the headings, can you define what a hook is?

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Available hooks that can be called by and from this module.
```

## Create or modify delegation distribution

 - triggered-by: `staking.MsgDelegate`, `staking.MsgBeginRedelegate`, `staking.MsgUndelegate`

### Before

> The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the withdraw address of the delegator.
> The rewards include the current period and exclude the starting period.
> The validator period is incremented.
> The validator period is incremented because the validator's power and share distribution might have changed.
> The reference count for the delegator's starting period is decremented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the withdraw address of the delegator.
- The rewards include the current period and exclude the starting period.
- The validator period is incremented.
- The validator period is incremented because the validator's power and share distribution might have changed.
- The reference count for the delegator's starting period is decremented.
```

Reviewer 2: using list items is helpful here

Reviewer 2: line 14 doesn't seem like a hook (more of a description)

Author: It's not really a list, more of a paragraph.

Author: ```suggestion
- The delegation rewards are withdrawn to the withdraw address of the delegator.
  The rewards include the current period and exclude the starting period.
- The validator period is incremented.
  The validator period is incremented because the validator's power and share distribution might have changed.
- The reference count for the delegator's starting period is decremented.
```

### After

The starting height of the delegation is set to the previous period.
Because of the `Before`-hook, this period is the last period for which the delegator was rewarded.

## Validator created

- triggered-by: `staking.MsgCreateValidator`

When a validator is created, the following validator variables are initialized:

- Historical rewards
- Current accumulated rewards
- Accumulated commission
- Total outstanding rewards
- Period

By default, all values are set to a `0`, except period, which is set to `1`.

## Validator removed

- triggered-by: `staking.RemoveValidator`

Outstanding commission is sent to the validator's self-delegation withdrawal address.
Remaining delegator rewards get sent to the community fee pool.

> Note: the validator only gets removed when it has no remaining delegations.
> At that time, all outstanding delegator rewards will have been withdrawn.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: The validator gets removed only when it has no remaining delegations.
At that time, all outstanding delegator rewards will have been withdrawn.
```

Any remaining rewards are dust amounts.

## Validator is slashed

- triggered-by: `staking.Slash`
  

> The current validator period reference count is incremented.
> The reference count is incremented because the slash event has created a reference to it.
> The validator period is incremented.
> The slash event is stored for later use.
> The slash event will be referenced when calculating delegator rewards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The current validator period reference count is incremented.
- The reference count is incremented because the slash event has created a reference to it.
- The validator period is incremented.
- The slash event is stored for later use.
- The slash event can be referenced when calculating delegator rewards.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- The current validator period reference count is incremented.
  The reference count is incremented because the slash event has created a reference to it.
- The validator period is incremented.
- The slash event is stored for later use.
  The slash event will be referenced when calculating delegator rewards.
```
